---
layout: post
title: ! 'RailsConf Europe Buzz #1: Creating a Passionate Conference'
---
Since people seem to be so concerned about the lack of buzz around "RailsConf Europe":http://europe.railsconf.org/, I'll officially start the buzz here. Ok, not officially, and not even start, since "David already kicked it off a few weeks ago":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2006/8/1/why-you-need-to-come-to-railsconf-eu. But I'll enumerate a few reasons that make the steep price worthwhile, for me at least.

h3. Today's reason: Kathy Sierra

If you haven't heard about Kathy Sierra or her blog "Creating Passionate Users":http://headrush.typepad.com/, you must have been living the last year your head stuck in a dark place. Kathy is one of the very few writers that can write compelling, useful articles _every. single. day._ No wonder she's been one of _the_ blogging rookies of the past two years, rising from zero to "Technorati Top 100 hero":http://technorati.com/pop/blogs/ in no time at all.

If I would have to select a single blog I would be able to read on a desert island, that would probably be Creating Passionate Users. Sorry, all you great Rails, hacking, web standards/design and business blogs. But I just can't think of a blog with as universal appeal to a hacker-designer-entrepreneur-geek as Kathy's. Her writing just clicks. And if she's even distantly as great a speaker as she is a writer, seeing her keynote live is probably alone worth the torture of hopping to Stansted in a cramped Ryanair seat.

_Rails is all about programmer happiness, and there is no better way to celebrate that than the living embodiment of passion opening the conference._
